[FLINK-21967] Add documentation on the operation of blocking shuffle (#15701)
apache/flink: docs/content/docs/ops/batch/blocking_shuffle.md

As a whole, Flink provides two different types of blocking shuffles:

- `Hash shuffle`.
- `Sort shuffle`.

They will be detailed in the following sections.

## Hash Shuffle

The default blocking shuffle implementation is `Hash Shuffle`. In `hash shuffle`, each upstream task would write a separate file for each downstream task on the local disk of the TaskManager. When the downstream tasks run they will request partitions from the upstream TaskManagers, and the upstream TaskManagers will read the data from the files and transmit the data via network.

`Hash Shuffle` provides different mechanisms for writing and reading files:

 - `file`: Writes files with the normal File IO, reads and transmits files with Netty `FileRegion`. `FileRegion` relies on `sendfile` system call to reduce the number of data copies and memory consumption.
 - `mmap`: Writes and reads files with `mmap` system call.
 - `Auto`: Writes files with the normal File IO, for file reading, it falls back to normal `file` option on 32 bit machine and use `mmap` on 64 bit machine. This is to avoid file size limitation of java `mmap` implementation on 32 bit machine.

> The different mechanism could be chosen via
> 
> ```yaml
> taskmanager.network.blocking-shuffle.type: file / mmap/ auto
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The different mechanism could be chosen via [TaskManager configurations]({{< ref "docs/deployment/config#taskmanager-network-blocking-shuffle-type" >}}
```

Reviewer: I'd prefer we link to configurations so things don't get out of sync.

> {{< hint info >}}
> **Note:** This option is experimental and might be changed future.
> 
> **Note:** If [SSL]({{< ref "docs/deployment/security/security-ssl" >}}) is enabled, the `file` mechanism could not use `FileRegion` any more and has to use un-pooled buffer to cache data before transmitting. This might [cause direct memory OOM](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-15981). Also, since the synchronous file reading might blocking Netty thread for some time, the SSL handshake timeout need to be increased to avoid [connection reset errors](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-21416):
> ```yaml
> security.ssl.internal.handshake-timeout: <larger value than the default 10000 ms>
> ```
> 
> **Note:** The memory usage of `mmap` is not accounted by configured memory limits, but some resource frameworks like yarn would track this memory usage and kill the container once memory exceeding some threshold.
> 
> {{< /hint >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< hint warning >}}
This option is experimental and might be changed future.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint warning >}}
If [SSL]({{< ref "docs/deployment/security/security-ssl" >}}) is enabled, the `file` mechanism can not use `FileRegion` and instead uses an un-pooled buffer to cache data before transmitting. This might [cause direct memory OOM](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-15981). Additionally, since the synchronous file reading might block Netty threads for some time, the [SSL handshake timeout]({{< ref "docs/deployment/config#security-ssl-internal-handshake-timeout" >}}) needs to be increased to avoid [connection reset errors](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-21416):
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint info >}}
The memory usage of `mmap` is not accounted for by configured memory limits, but some resource frameworks like Yarn will track this memory usage and kill the container if memory exceeds some threshold.
{{< /hint >}}
```

To further improve the performance, for most jobs we also recommend [enabling compression]({{< ref "docs/deployment/config">}}#taskmanager-network-blocking-shuffle-compression-enabled) unless the data is hard to compress:

> ```yaml
> taskmanager.network.blocking-shuffle.compression.enabled: true
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> `Hash Shuffle` works well for small scale jobs with SSD, but it also has some disadvantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Hash Shuffle` works well for small scale jobs with SSD, but it also have some disadvantages:
```

1. If the job scale is large, it might create too many files, and it requires a large write buffer to write these files at the same time.
2. On HDD, when multiple downstream tasks fetch their data simultaneously, it might incur the issue of random IO.  

## Sort Shuffle 

> `Sort Shuffle` is another blocking shuffle implementation introduced in version 1.13. Different from `Hash Shuffle`, `sort shuffle` writes only one file for each result partition and when the result partition is read by multiple downstream tasks concurrently, the data file is opened only once and shared by all readers. As a result, resources like inode and file descriptor can be reduced, which improves the stability. Furthermore, by writing fewer files and trying best to read data sequentially, `sort shuffle` can achieve better performance than `hash shuffle`, especially on HDD. Besides, `sort shuffle` uses extra managed memory as data reading buffer and does not rely on `sendfile` or `mmap` mechanism, thus it also works well with [SSL]({{< ref "docs/deployment/security/security-ssl" >}}). Please refer to [FLINK-19582](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-19582) and [FLINK-19614](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-19614) for more details about `sort shuffle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Sort Shuffle` is another blocking shuffle implementation introduced in version 1.13. Different from `Hash Shuffle`, sort shuffle writes only one file for each result partition. When the result partition is read by multiple downstream tasks concurrently, the data file is opened only once and shared by all readers. As a result, the cluster uses fewer resources like inode and file descriptors, which improves stability. Furthermore, by writing fewer files and making a best effort to read data sequentially, sort shuffle can achieve better performance than hash shuffle, especially on HDD. Additionally, `sort shuffle` uses extra managed memory as data reading buffer and does not rely on `sendfile` or `mmap` mechanism, thus it also works well with [SSL]({{< ref "docs/deployment/security/security-ssl" >}}). Please refer to [FLINK-19582](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-19582) and [FLINK-19614](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLINK-19614) for more details about sort shuffle.
```
